---
layout:
  width: wide
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
  metadata:
    visible: false
---

# 2.14 Development Frameworks & APIs

In addition to web servers that can host web applications in various languages, there are many common web development frameworks that help in developing core web application files and functionality. With the increased complexity of web applications, it may be challenging to create a modern and sophisticated web application from scratch. Hence, most of the popular web applications are developed using web frameworks.

As most web applications share common functionality -such as user registration-, web development frameworks make it easy to quickly implement this functionality and link them to the front end components, making a fully functional web application. Some of the most common web development frameworks include:

* [Laravel](https://laravel.com/) (`PHP`): usually used by startups and smaller companies, as it is powerful yet easy to develop for.
* [Express](https://expressjs.com/) (`Node.JS`): used by `PayPal`, `Yahoo`, `Uber`, `IBM`, and `MySpace`.
* [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) (`Python`): used by `Google`, `YouTube`, `Instagram`, `Mozilla`, and `Pinterest`.
* [Rails](https://rubyonrails.org) (`Ruby`): used by `GitHub`, `Hulu`, `Twitch`, `Airbnb`, and even `Twitter` in the past.

> It must be noted that popular websites usually utilize a variety of frameworks and web servers, rather than just one.

### Web APIs

An API ([Application Programming Interface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/API)) is an interface within an application that specifies how the application can interact with other applications. For Web Applications, it is what allows remote access to functionality on back end components. APIs are not exclusive to web applications and are used for software applications in general. Web APIs are usually accessed over the `HTTP` protocol and are usually handled and translated through web servers.

### SOAP

The `SOAP` ([Simple Objects Access](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SOAP)) standard shares data through `XML`, where the request is made in `XML` through an HTTP request, and the response is also returned in `XML`. Front end components are designed to parse this `XML` output properly. The following is an example `SOAP` message:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>

<soap:Envelope
xmlns:soap="http://www.example.com/soap/soap/"
soap:encodingStyle="http://www.w3.org/soap/soap-encoding">

<soap:Header>
</soap:Header>

<soap:Body>
  <soap:Fault>
  </soap:Fault>
</soap:Body>

</soap:Envelope>

```

`SOAP` is very useful for transferring structured data (i.e., an entire class object), or even binary data, and is often used with serialized objects, all of which enables sharing complex data between front end and back end components and parsing it properly. It is also very useful for sharing _stateful_ objects -i.e., sharing/changing the current state of a web page-, which is becoming more common with modern web applications and mobile applications.

However, `SOAP` may be difficult to use for beginners or require long and complicated requests even for smaller queries, like basic `search` or `filter` queries. This is where the `REST` API standard is more useful.

### REST

The `REST` ([Representational State Transfer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer)) standard shares data through the URL path 'i.e. `search/users/1`', and usually returns the output in `JSON` format 'i.e. userid `1`'.

Unlike Query Parameters, `REST` APIs usually focus on pages that expect one type of input passed directly through the URL path, without specifying its name or type. This is usually useful for queries like `search`, `sort`, or `filter`. This is why `REST` APIs usually break web application functionality into smaller APIs and utilize these smaller API requests to allow the web application to perform more advanced actions, making the web application more modular and scalable.

Responses to `REST` API requests are usually made in `JSON` format, and the front end components are then developed to handle this response and render it properly. Other output formats for `REST` include `XML`, `x-www-form-urlencoded`, or even raw data. As seen previously in the `database` section, the following is an example of a `JSON` response to the `GET /category/posts/` API request:

```json
{
  "100001": {
    "date": "01-01-2021",
    "content": "Welcome to this web application."
  },
  "100002": {
    "date": "02-01-2021",
    "content": "This is the first post on this web app."
  },
  "100003": {
    "date": "02-01-2021",
    "content": "Reminder: Tomorrow is the ..."
  }
}
```

`REST` uses various HTTP methods to perform different actions on the web application:

* `GET` request to retrieve data
* `POST` request to create data (non-idempotent)
* `PUT` request to create or replace existing data (idempotent)
* `DELETE` request to remove data
