---
layout:
  width: wide
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: false
  pagination:
    visible: true
  metadata:
    visible: false
  tags:
    visible: false
tags:
  - web-fuzzing-tools
  - gobuster
  - ffuf
  - feroxbuster
  - wfuzz
  - wenum
---

# 5.2 Tooling

## Installing Go, Python and PIPX <a href="#installing-go-python-and-pipx" id="installing-go-python-and-pipx"></a>

You will require Go and Python installed for these tools. Install them as follows if you don't have them installed already.

`pipx` is a command-line tool designed to simplify the installation and management of Python applications. It streamlines the process by creating isolated virtual environments for each application, ensuring that dependencies don't conflict. This means you can install and run multiple Python applications without worrying about compatibility issues. `pipx` also makes it easy to upgrade or uninstall applications, keeping your system organized and clutter-free.

If you are using a Debian-based system (like Ubuntu), you can install Go, Python, and PIPX using the APT package manager.

1.  Open a terminal and update your package lists to ensure you have the latest information on the newest versions of packages and their dependencies.

    ```bash
    sudo apt update
    ```
2.  Use the following command to install Go:

    ```bash
    sudo apt install -y golang
    ```
3.  Use the following command to install Python:

    ```bash
    sudo apt install -y python3 python3-pip
    ```
4.  Use the following command to install and configure pipx:

    ```bash
    sudo apt install pipx
    pipx ensurepath
    sudo pipx ensurepath --global
    ```
5.  To ensure that Go and Python are installed correctly, you can check their versions:

    ```bash
    go version
    python3 --version
    ```

If the installations were successful, you should see the version information for both Go and Python.

***

