---
layout:
  width: wide
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
  metadata:
    visible: false
---

# 4.2 WHOIS

WHOIS is a query and response protocol used to retrieve information about domain names, IP addresses, and other internet resources. It's essentially a directory service that details who owns a domain, when it was registered, contact information, and more. In the context of web reconnaissance, WHOIS lookups can be a valuable source of information, potentially revealing the identity of the website owner, their contact information, and other details that could be used for further investigation or social engineering attacks.

```bash
SubhaDip03@htb[/htb]$ whois inlanefreight.com

[...]
Domain Name: inlanefreight.com
Registry Domain ID: 2420436757_DOMAIN_COM-VRSN
Registrar WHOIS Server: whois.registrar.amazon
Registrar URL: https://registrar.amazon.com
Updated Date: 2023-07-03T01:11:15Z
Creation Date: 2019-08-05T22:43:09Z
[...]
```

Each WHOIS record typically contains the following information:

* **Domain Name:** The domain name itself (e.g., example.com)
* **Registrar:** The company where the domain was registered (e.g., GoDaddy, Namecheap)
* **Registrant Contact:** The person or organization that registered the domain.
* **Administrative Contact:** The person responsible for managing the domain.
* **Technical Contact:** The person handling technical issues related to the domain.
* **Creation and Expiration Dates:** When the domain was registered and when it's set to expire.
* **Name Servers:** Servers that translate the domain name into an IP address.

### Using WHOIS

Install WHOIS in Linux Machine:

```bash
SubhaDip03@htb[/htb]$ sudo apt update
SubhaDip03@htb[/htb]$ sudo apt install whois -y
```

The simplest way to access WHOIS data is through the `whois` command-line tool. Let's perform a WHOIS lookup on `facebook.com`:

```bash
SubhaDip03@htb[/htb]$ whois facebook.com

   Domain Name: FACEBOOK.COM
   Registry Domain ID: 2320948_DOMAIN_COM-VRSN
   Registrar WHOIS Server: whois.registrarsafe.com
   Registrar URL: http://www.registrarsafe.com
   Updated Date: 2024-04-24T19:06:12Z
   Creation Date: 1997-03-29T05:00:00Z
   Registry Expiry Date: 2033-03-30T04:00:00Z
   Registrar: RegistrarSafe, LLC
   Registrar IANA ID: 3237
   Registrar Abuse Contact Email: abusecomplaints@registrarsafe.com
   Registrar Abuse Contact Phone: +1-650-308-7004
   Domain Status: clientDeleteProhibited https://icann.org/epp#clientDeleteProhibited
   Domain Status: clientTransferProhibited https://icann.org/epp#clientTransferProhibited
   Domain Status: clientUpdateProhibited https://icann.org/epp#clientUpdateProhibited
   Domain Status: serverDeleteProhibited https://icann.org/epp#serverDeleteProhibited
   Domain Status: serverTransferProhibited https://icann.org/epp#serverTransferProhibited
   Domain Status: serverUpdateProhibited https://icann.org/epp#serverUpdateProhibited
   Name Server: A.NS.FACEBOOK.COM
   Name Server: B.NS.FACEBOOK.COM
   Name Server: C.NS.FACEBOOK.COM
   Name Server: D.NS.FACEBOOK.COM
   DNSSEC: unsigned
   URL of the ICANN Whois Inaccuracy Complaint Form: https://www.icann.org/wicf/
>>> Last update of whois database: 2024-06-01T11:24:10Z <<<

[...]
Registry Registrant ID:
Registrant Name: Domain Admin
Registrant Organization: Meta Platforms, Inc.
[...]
```

The WHOIS output for `facebook.com` reveals several key details:

1.  `Domain Registration`:

    * `Registrar`: RegistrarSafe, LLC
    * `Creation Date`: 1997-03-29
    * `Expiry Date`: 2033-03-30

    These details indicate that the domain is registered with RegistrarSafe, LLC, and has been active for a considerable period, suggesting its legitimacy and established online presence. The distant expiry date further reinforces its longevity.
2.  `Domain Owner`:

    * `Registrant/Admin/Tech Organization`: Meta Platforms, Inc.
    * `Registrant/Admin/Tech Contact`: Domain Admin

    This information identifies Meta Platforms, Inc. as the organization behind `facebook.com`, and "Domain Admin" as the point of contact for domain-related matters. This is consistent with the expectation that Facebook, a prominent social media platform, is owned by Meta Platforms, Inc.
3.  `Domain Status`:

    * `clientDeleteProhibited`, `clientTransferProhibited`, `clientUpdateProhibited`, `serverDeleteProhibited`, `serverTransferProhibited`, and `serverUpdateProhibited`

    These statuses indicate that the domain is protected against unauthorized changes, transfers, or deletions on both the client and server sides. This highlights a strong emphasis on security and control over the domain.
4.  `Name Servers`:

    * `A.NS.FACEBOOK.COM`, `B.NS.FACEBOOK.COM`, `C.NS.FACEBOOK.COM`, `D.NS.FACEBOOK.COM`

    These name servers are all within the `facebook.com` domain, suggesting that Meta Platforms, Inc. manages its DNS infrastructure. It is common practice for large organizations to maintain control and reliability over their DNS resolution.

Overall, the WHOIS output for `facebook.com` aligns with expectations for a well-established and secure domain owned by a large organization like Meta Platforms, Inc.

While the WHOIS record provides contact information for domain-related issues, it might not be directly helpful in identifying individual employees or specific vulnerabilities. This highlights the need to combine WHOIS data with other reconnaissance techniques to understand the target's digital footprint comprehensively.
