---
layout:
  width: wide
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
  metadata:
    visible: false
  tags:
    visible: true
---

# 6.2 Source Code

Modern websites use **HTML, CSS, and JavaScript** to work together. HTML defines the structure of the page, CSS controls the design and layout, and JavaScript handles the functionality and behavior behind the scenes.

Most of the interactive features of a website run using JavaScript in the background, while users only see and interact with the front-end interface. Even though this code is executed in the browser and is available on the client-side, users usually don’t pay attention to it.

However, by viewing the **page source or inspecting elements**, we can access this code and understand how the website works, including its logic, parameters, and functionalities. This is an important step in web analysis and security testing.

***

## HTML <a href="#html" id="html"></a>

Read About HTML from [here](../2.-introduction-to-web-applications/2.4-html.md).

> The HTML source code can hold various information, such as comments, to further facilitate a better understanding of the code. Developers may leave sensitive information, which can be further taken advantage of. It is worth reading through the HTML comments.

***

## CSS

`CSS` code is either defined `internally` within the same `HTML` file between `<style>` elements, or defined `externally` in a separate `.css` file and referenced within the `HTML` code.

In this case, we see that the `CSS` is internally defined, as seen in the code snippet below:

```html
    <style>
        *,
        html {
            margin: 0;
            padding: 0;
            border: 0;
        }
        ...SNIP...
        h1 {
            font-size: 144px;
        }
        p {
            font-size: 64px;
        }
    </style>

```

If a page `CSS` style is externally defined, the external `.css` file is referred to with the `<link>` tag within the HTML head, as follows:

```html
<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
</head>

```

Read About CSS from [here](../2.-introduction-to-web-applications/2.5-cascading-style-sheets-css.md).

***

## JavaScript

Read about JavaScript from [here](../2.-introduction-to-web-applications/2.6-javascript.md).
